[Music]
what will happen to us in 1 billion
years humankind has always dreamed of
sneaking a peek into the future
sci-fi writers of the past with our rich
imaginations describe technologies that
we actually have nowadays so could it be
that everything you see in futuristic
movies today will come true in a few
centuries most likely but what if we
wonder about a more distant future say 1
billion years from now before we hop
into our time machine be sure to hit
that big red subscribe button and don't
forget to ring the notification bell
while you're at it
so that you don't miss the fun and
informative videos coming out every
single day on the bright side of life
all right let's set our course for 1
billion years into the future we're
about to watch what will happen to our
planet throughout all this time get
ready for some really significant
changes buckle up and enjoy the ride the
first impressive benchmark will be the
year 10,000 this is when people will
face why 10 K also known as the DECA
millennium bug or the year 10,000
problem since years will now need to be
expressed in five digit numbers software
won't be able to put into code dates
that start at 10,000 Cee besides that by
this time human genetic variations such
as people's hair and skin color won't be
regionalised anymore
these traits will be evenly spread
around the globe we'll all uniformly be
the human race let's go further if you
suddenly found yourself twenty thousand
years from today chances are that you
wouldn't understand people at all even
if nowadays you speak several languages
and that's because by year 20,000 all
modern languages will have evolved into
something completely different only one
out of every
hundred words in our current vocabulary
will remain in this distant future
arriving about fifty thousand years from
our current time and the world will be
entering another Ice Age this will lead
to all kinds of changes for example all
the lakes situated on the Canadian
Shield as well as other landmarks will
disappear due to erosion you won't be
able to enjoy the might of Niagara Falls
any longer
climate change will take care of that in
addition days will become one full
second longer which will lead to a lot
of confusion
unless of course people will officially
make one day 24 hours and one second in
100,000 years the constellations and
stars that you see from Earth today will
look absolutely different the reason for
this change in the night sky will be the
distance earth and the solar system will
have traveled throughout the galaxies
orbit also by this time will likely have
colonized Mars so people will probably
be marveling at the new stars from its
surface in 250,000 years a new island
will arise in the Hawaiian Islands it'll
be the Loihi volcano which is predicted
to appear from the ocean depths around
that time earth will be struck by a
gigantic asteroid 3,280 feet in diameter
about five hundred thousand years from
now the crater from this asteroid will
be no smaller than 250 miles across as a
result disastrous fires will start all
over the planet and the air will become
unbreathable on the other hand by this
time humankind will likely have already
invented the necessary technology to
prevent this gigantic rock from smashing
into the earth but even if this asteroid
doesn't get a chance to change the
surface of our planet many landmarks
will have vanished
in half a million years the Badlands
National Park in South Dakota will have
eroded into nothing about 950 thousand
years in the future and the famous
meteor crater in Arizona is now gone
this huge hole in the ground with a
diameter of 39,000 feet and a depth of
560 feet surrounded by a one hundred
forty eight foot tall Rim will simply
flatten out due to erosion if anybody's
still living in Earth in 1 million years
they'll have to face a huge threat
around this time a supervolcano will go
off covering an area of 720 cubic miles
with expelled magma such an unimaginable
amount of lava is enough to fill up
about 75% of the Grand Canyon scientists
believe that the force of this eruption
will be similar to that of the Toba
supervolcano it happened roughly 70,000
years ago and nearly destroyed humankind
about 800 cubic miles of ash covered the
planet at that time according to some
estimates only three thousand to ten
thousand people managed to survive this
20 year long volcanic disaster besides a
massive super eruption the star
Betelgeuse will explode into a supernova
and this will be clearly visible from
our planet as 2 million years passing
the Grand Canyon has slowly been
deteriorating turning into a valley
other than a huge canyon actually the
planet looks completely different on a
home by this time however people will
have left earth and settled down on
other planets even more than that
they'll probably have already evolved
into a very different species entirely
about ten million years in the future a
huge piece of East Africa will break off
from the mainland and a new ocean will
appear between these parts Mars will
collide with Phobos its own moon 50
million years from now and this will
cause some pretty serious damage to the
Red Planet as a result though Mars may
acquire a new decoration a ring system
similar to the one that Saturn has
nowadays at approximately the same time
here on earth one more chunk of africa
will wander off and collide with Eurasia
as a result the Mediterranean Sea will
vanish from the surface of the planet
besides that a mountain range will
appear between Eurasia and Africa with a
height that will likely dwarf Mount
Everest as for the Canadian and American
Rockies in 60 million years they'll
completely flatten due to erosion and
after 80 million years past the Hawaiian
Islands will disappear into the ocean
one more asteroid is likely to hit earth
again in the next 250 million years the
power of this one will be equal to the
force of the asteroid that destroyed the
dinosaurs around 66 million years ago at
the same time this asteroid may cause
the continents to come back together
again forming a new Pangaea Ultima but
this reunion is unlikely to last in the
following 400 to 500 million years this
supercontinent will split up yet
another million years later our planet
will be hit with a lethal burst of
radiation this will be the result of a
distant star about 6,500 light years
away from Earth dying and exploding into
a supernova you see this process emits
incredible amounts of radiation known as
gamma-ray bursts to give you an idea of
just how powerful this sort of explosion
is a gamma-ray burst
emits more energy in just half a minute
than our Sun has in the 10 billion years
of its existence that's why despite a
huge distance of 6,500 light years this
event will severely damage our planet's
ozone layer which will result in another
mass extinction another problem will be
the ever-increasing luminosity and power
of the Sun it will cause the amount of
co2 in the atmosphere to drop down to
such levels that photosynthesis won't be
possible anymore
as a result 99% of the plants on earth
will die oxygen and ozone will train
from the atmosphere killing all kinds of
complex life all of this will happen by
the year 800 million and finally 1
billion years from now the force of the
Sun will increase by 10% the temperature
on the surface of the planet will rise
to an average of 117 degrees Fahrenheit
the oceans will evaporate and earth will
turn into a damp greenhouse some areas
of liquid water will probably still
exist at the poles if so they'll be the
last strongholds of life on the whole
planet
in any case whatever happens to earth
after that humans won't be there to
witness it we'll have left our mother
planet long ago so thankfully we won't
be around to see all these catastrophic
changes do you have any other ideas how
the future of our planet may unfold
share your opinion in the comments below
remember to hit the like button and
subscribe to our Channel the future is a
lot more promising on the bright side of
life
[Music]